# Pull Requests

Pull requests are the bread and butter of developers.

Since high-quality code is a big priority for us, they are a crucial point in our workflow, because it's when code gets discussed and reviewed.

High-quality code requires a high-quality review.

High-quality reviews require a high-quality PR.

So what makes a PR high-quality? Read on!

## test plan
Whenever you submit a PR, you're responsible for at least two things:
- testing that your code works
- informing others of how you tested it

A test plan is an informal description of what you've done to make sure that your code works as expected.

Writing a test plan has two great benefits:
- other people see what you tested (and may spot something that you haven't)
- you are forced to think about possible test cases you missed


Just to be clear, we're not nazis about automatic testing: a test plan can be anything that gives a reasonable confidence in a working implementation.

Examples of valid test plans are:
- [reference to unit tests](https://github.omnilab.our.buildo.io/buildo/aliniq/pull/2572)
- [manual testing](https://github.omnilab.our.buildo.io/buildo/aliniq/pull/2548)
- [screenshots](https://github.omnilab.our.buildo.io/buildo/aliniq/pull/2541)
- [animated GIFs](https://github.omnilab.our.buildo.io/buildo/aliniq/pull/2396)

## reviewability
PRs must be reviawable. This is a rather vague concept, but a few rule of thumbs apply:

- don't make them too big

  Nobody likes to review 2000 lines of code at once, so please don't make your PR humongous. There are exceptions to this (e.g. a project bootstrap), but in general prefer breaking your work into multiple PRs when the diff gets too long.

-  use commits wisely

  Break PRs into multiple commits, with a meaningful commit message. A review is much easier if each commit is reviewable independently.
  
- add a comprehensive test plan

  we mentioned this already, right? ;-)
  
## the PR workflow
Working with GitHub has some downsides too. Namely, the review tools are "not so great" and handling git rebases and review comments can become tricky.

Here's a reference workflow for minimizing the sources of frustration. As always, any feedback is welcome.

### Work + PR Creation
- `John` works on a feature branch

- `John` pushes a **decently structured** version of the feature and opens a PR
  - In order to be decently structured, `John` might need to refactor the branch before pushing.

- `John` assigns `Sarah` for review

### Review + discussion phase
- Iteration between `John` and `Sarah`
  - **NO REBASES** during the review
  - Every fix/edit is done through **new commits**

### Refactor phase
- Review is over, `Sarah` can optionally ask `John` to refactor the branch to strip useless intermediate commits and give it a sensible structure.

- `John` refactors the branch

- `Sarah` merges

