# JavaScript at buildo

This section should be an overview of how we use (or limit/tame/`<put your preferred against-js verb here>`) JavaScript per-se as a language at buildo.
Let's start by defining exactly which specification of the language we are talking about.

## Typing

As the informed reader might already know, JS doesn't offer us much in terms of types.

Taking for granted that the specification might never evolve to a better typed language (for backward compatibility and other valid reasons), the community is moving with support and tooling for types in three main directions, which we'll explore briefly.
 
- **compile-to-js languages**: on the bright side, JS is an easy and profitable compilation target. There are many options around these days, basically every language on earth has some support for compilation to JS (examples are [Scala.js](https://github.com/scala-js/scala-js), [purescript](https://github.com/purescript/purescript) and [ClojureScript](https://github.com/clojure/clojurescript)). However, in terms of adoption of the JS community, we currently have a clear winner which is [TypeScript](https://github.com/Microsoft/TypeScript). The idea here is to have a superset of JS that stays very close to the original language, adding type annotations and a few keywords, but adds **static** type checking before the output of any valid JS code. In addition, the TypeScript compiler supports the latest ESWhatever features, and takes care of producing cross compatible bundles for you (so in a typical scenario you would also partially replace webpack/babel with TypeScript).
- **external *static* tools**: AKA [flow](https://github.com/facebook/flow) (I'm not aware of any other comparable tool in this category). [Flow](https://github.com/facebook/flow) runs alongside your dev/build pipeline, understands a superset of JS (various type annotations), adds type inference (so even for non-annotated sources), and does its magic (reports compile-time errors).
- **JS library**: use JS to typecheck JS. There are quite a few libraries with this purpose out there, one of the most used/comprehensive is [tcomb](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb), discussed below. Another example is `React.PropTypes`. As the even-more-informed reader might have guessed, in this world you loose the ability to do any static type checking, you're limited[^3] to the dynamic world.

### runtime type checks

We are currently relying on the third option only, and we're doing so via [tcomb](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb) and its ecosystem ([tcomb-react](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb-react), [babel-plugin-tcomb](https://github.com/gcanti/babel-plugin-tcomb)).

From [tcomb README](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb/blob/master/README.md),

> tcomb is a library for Node.js and the browser which allows you to check the types of JavaScript values at runtime with a simple and concise syntax

You can find a much more comprehensive description on github, especially in the [GUIDE](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb/blob/master/GUIDE.md), but let me put here a short example so you can get the feeling:

```js
// a custom type definition
// in this case using the `struct` "combinator"
const User = t.struct({
  // many "irreducible" types are provided out of the box
  username: t.String,
  birthDate: t.Date,
  // ...
});

// a typechecked function
const userMagicNumber = user => {
  User(user); // this throws if `user` is not a proper `User`
  // ...
  return t.Number(MAGIC_NUMBER); // this throws if `MAGIC_NUMBER` is not a `Number`
}
```

[tcomb-react](https://github.com/gcanti/tcomb-react) is the tcomb integration for react, it basically provides `@props`, a (arguable, but in our option *better*) replacement for react own `PropTypes` definitions.

As a quick example, what you can write in "standard react" as

```js
export default class User extends React.Component {
  static propTypes = {
    name: React.PropTypes.string.isRequired,
    surname: React.PropTypes.string.isRequired,
    nickName: React.PropTypes.string
  }
  
  // ...
}
```

becomes

```js
@props({
  name: t.String,
  surname: t.String,
  nickName: t.maybe(t.String)
})
export default class User extends React.Component {
  // ...
}
```

Did you notice the `.isRequired` parts are gone? Pheew, that's because "required" is a much more sane default for props ;)

[babel-plugin-tcomb](https://github.com/gcanti/babel-plugin-tcomb) is a babel plugin that allows the developer to declare runtime type checks as type annotations, using the `tcomb` syntax. Basically the plugin does some code transformations that transform the annotations into actual runtime code. It writes the assertions for your type declarations.

Using this plugin, the "typechecked function" above becomes much more readable:

```js
const userMagicNumber = (user: User): t.Number => {
  // ...
}
```

### A step towards adding static typechecks

`babel-plugin-tcomb` is particularly interesting as a first step in the static type checking direction: provided a way to make e.g. flow understand our tcomb annotations[^4] (or viceversa, translating the annotations to flow and do the opposite), we should be able to get the best of both worlds.[^5]

```js
const sum = (a: t.Number, b: t.Number): t.Number => a + b;
```
and
```js
const sum = (a: number, b: number): number => a + b;
```
look very similar, right?


[^3]: In terms of power and expressiveness this is not an actual limitation (the contrary is usually true). In terms of confidence though, it is sort of a bummer: you can't prove things without actually running the code. You are forced to explicitly stimulate any interesting `code-path X state`, which is basically impossible. The hard truth is that, in the real ("dynamic languages") world, this happens (more often than you might think) directly in production :(
[^4]: Imaginary work at the moment. Sounds feasible though, at least where the two worlds (static and runtime) can share the same semantics.
[^5]: Some checks will always remain dynamic/runtime. For instance, think about the "API boundary": a client must parse and then typecheck a string/JSON value. A static tool doesn't add any guarantee there, type checking, and how to continue/recover when things go wrong, must be handled at application/runtime level.