# General structure

In the following we'll try to sketch out what a typical react app should look like in terms of:
- directory layout
- name conventions
- main components/parts

This is not to be intended as a strict guideline, as different projects could vary slightly and that's OK.

## Source code

All app source code should stay in `<project root>/src`:
```
<project root>
|_ package.json
|_ config.json
|_ webpack.config.js
|_ .eslintrc
|  ...
|_ src
   |_ app
   |  |_ routes
   |  |_ components
   |  |_ domain
   |     ...
   |_ client
   |  |_ index.js
   |  |_ [index-B.js]
   |     ...
   |_ [server]
```

`src/app` is where the core app code goes. This should be the majority of source code.

`src/client` contains client-specific bootstrap files, typically 1:1 with a [webpack `entry` config](https://webpack.github.io/docs/configuration.html#entry). We use a folder here since you might have multiple build configurations, to produce different apps sharing source code, or to produce bundles for different targets (, website vs electron).

Some projects might include a ["universal"](https://medium.com/@mjackson/universal-javascript-4761051b7ae9#.yzqdrsdd0) setup. In this case, the `node` entry point and everything that's specific to node / server side pieces of the app should stay inside `src/server`.

Everything else should stay outside `src`: `test`, build tools configurations, app configuration, linter configuration and other helper scripts.

## webseed

As an example, refer to [buildo/webseed](https://github.com/buildo/webseed).

It contains a basic example app integrating many of the standard tools we use across projects.

It should serve as a documented reference of a good way of structuring apps, or even as a copy-and-paste seed to easily start up a new project. We'll do our best to keep it up to date.

Refer to the [Tutorial](../5.tutorial.md) for a better understanding of the purpose of all the modules that you see in `src/app` such as `commands.js`, `queries`, etc.
