# Components

Components are the building blocks of any react UI. They are not all the same though...

> **NOTE** While the following doesn't apply to *all* our react projects as of now, we'll try to keep this always up to date with the latest.

## A Components Taxonomy

From a props/data perspective, there are three main kinds of components:

#### Containers

Containers are what we use to logically separate layout and data in our apps. They *contain* a plain component passing it the data that it needs and the callbacks that it should be able to trigger.

At the minimum, they can be defined by:
- the contained UI component
- the connected state (sync or async)
- a mapping function: `ContainerProps => ComponentProps`

To easily enforce this guideline (and to reduce boilerplate of course), we created this [`container` helper](https://github.com/buildo/react-container).

A typical `Container` component file could look like:
```ts
import container from 'container';
import { TransitionFunction } from 'state';
import MyPostComponent from 'MyPostComponent';

type MapProps = {
  postExpanded: boolean,
  transition: TransitionFunction
};
export default container(MyPostComponent, {
  connect: [ 'postExpanded' },
  queries: ['post'],
  mapProps: ({ postExpanded, transition }: MapProps) => ({
    expanded: postExpanded,
    onExpandToggle: () => {
      transition({ postExpanded: !postExpanded });
    }
  })
});
```

#### Plain Components

Typically always (except for very rare exceptions) pure (i.e., should be `React.PureComponent`s or use the *deprecated* `@pure` decorator).

They should not be decorated with `connect`, `queries` or `commands`: delegate these jobs to a container.

## Directory layout

`Component`s should stay inside `src/app/components/..` and, if reused around the application, in `src/app/components/Basic/..`. The `Basic` subfolder should contain an `index.ts` to export all the basic components inside it.

A `Container` and the contained component should stay in the same folder, named as the `Component` itself,
and the folder should have an `index.ts` file exporting the `Container`:
```
Basic
|_ WorklistDropdown
  |_ index.ts
  |_ WorklistDropdown.tsx
  |_ WorklistDropdownContainer.ts
  |_ [worklistDropdown.scss]
```
Same story if the component doesn't have any container:
```
Basic
|_ Card
  |_ index.ts
  |_ Card.tsx
  |_ [card.scss]
```
In this way, we can always import from `Component` or `Basic`, whether it is a container or not.

## File Names
#### Component Directories

Should be named in *ComponentCase*, like `MyComponentsFolder`.

Applies mainly to `src/app/components` and `test/tests/components`, and to any other directory containing react components or component tests.

#### Component Files

`ts`/`tsx` files: should be named in *ComponentCase*, like `MyComponent.tsx` (except for `index` files).

`style` files: should be named exactly like relative component `tsx` file but in *camelCase*, like `myComponent.scss`.

#### Handlers (`RouteHandler`s)

> DEPRECATED: we decided to stop using `react-router`, even though you could still see it, together with RouteHandler, in some projects.

React router entry points, they exist solely to be referenced in `app/routes.js`
and describe the (nested) routes layout. They should not manage data.

They do not receive any prop. In other `react-router` setups, they typically receive (and manage) router params such as `params` and `query`. In our setup, the url state is just a subset of the global state atom, and we read and manage it through `Container`s (discussed below).

They can however, and typically have to, lay-out different children components (a child `Handler` or other components), and they do so making use of layout component helpers, such as `FlexView` or more custom ones.
We should strive to keep the `Handler`s template as simple as possible, and reuse simple and complex layout components in multiple `Handler`s when possible.

A typical `Handler` component file method could look like:
```js
export default class MyHandler extends React.Component {
  render () {
    return (
      <MyLayoutView>
        <MyContainer1 />
        <RouteHandler />
      </MyLayoutView>
    );
  }
}
```

`Handler`s are **non pure**: because they can render react-router `RouteHandler`s
(actually only `Handlers` containing a `<RouteHandler>` can't be pure - leaf `Handler`s could in theory,
but since we try to keep all data handling in separated `Container`s, described below,
possible performance issues requiring "pure" optimizations should be confined there)

For the same reason, `Handler`s rendering both `Container`s and children `Handler`s should try to do so in separate sub-trees:
one to be kept unpure (the `<RouteHandler>` one), the other optimized by default. The example above follows this guideline.

`Handler`s should stay inside `src/app/routes/...`.
