# buildo-react-components

To share basic components across our projects we collected them in a separate repository: https://github.com/buildo/react-components

From now on we'll refer to `buildo-react-components` as `b-r-c`

## Showroom

b-r-c has a looot of components. To help people find the correct one, we created a shiny [showroom](http://react-components.buildo.io/). Here you can interact with live demos and read documentation for every b-r-c component.

## Import

To reduce bundle size, b-r-c component should be imported directly:

```ts
// Good
import Panel from 'buildo-react-components/lib/Panel';

// Wrong!
import { Panel } from 'buildo-react-components';
```

## Customization

b-r-c components should never be used directly inside a project.

To improve maintainability, we prefer to wrap them with a new component (usually named the same way). This wrapper component allows we to customize the b-r-c component adapting it every project.

To see an example of how to do it, go to [step 7](../tutorial/step_7.md) of our frontend tutorial.

## Style customization

As described in the CSS chapter, a component is composed by a TS part and a Style one.

When we import a b-r-c component, we need to import its style too. This is done inside the wrapper: the style is always imported by the TS part of a component.

OK, but how do we customize the style to adapt it to our project theme?

Every b-r-c component has a SASS API interface that allows we to customize most of its style without writing a single CSS class!

To see a simple example of a SASS API you can check Badge's style file [here](https://github.com/buildo/react-components/blob/master/src/badge/badge.scss).

Back to the style customization, this is how we do it:

First of all we create a `.scss` file in the same folder of our wrapper named as the wrapper itself but in camelCase.

```
|_ Badge
   |_ Badge.tsx
   |_ badge.scss
```

In `badge.scss` we import the default style from b-r-c, but first we modify its variables to customize it:

```scss
/* badge.scss */
@import '~theme/variables.scss'; // project's variables

// override Badge's variable
$background: blue;
$active-background: red;

@import '~buildo-react-components/src/badge/badge.scss'; // Badge's default style from b-r-c
```

If SASS API is not enough, we can still overwrite class properties directly with CSS as usual:

```scss
/* badge.scss */
@import '~theme/variables.scss'; // project's variables

// overwrite Badge's variable
$background: blue;
$active-background: red;

@import '~buildo-react-components/src/badge/badge.scss'; // Badge's default style from b-r-c

// CSS overwrites
.badge {
  min-width: 34px;
  height: 22px;
}
```

Finally, we import this style in our project from the TS part of the component:

```tsx
import { Badge as BRCBadge, BadgeProps } from 'buildo-react-components/lib/Badge';

import './badge.scss';

export default class Badge extends React.component<BadgeProps> {
  render = () => <BRCBadge {...this.props} />
}
```
