# Slack

[Slack](https://slack.com/) is a chat we use to discuss about anything.
You can join a conversation in a public channel or talk privately to a co-worker and it's a great way to keep the conversation going and still maintain the office a quiet place.

Slack is a powerful tool and we've been using it for many years now. Here are some of the things we learned from experience.

## Private vs Public

### Public channels
Team awareness is extremely improtant, so - by default - prefer writing public channel to a private message.
Even if you are talking to a specific person, many times the information will be useful to other people, even when you don't realize it.

Remember that you can create new public channels easily, so if you are afraid to "spam" people you can create a new channel for the topic you want to discuss and move the conversation there.
Interested people can read the discussion in real-time or at a later time, and the information doesn't get lost in private conversations.

Also, if you think creating a new channel is "too much", you can start a thread from a specific message, so that you don't clog the main stream of the channel.

### Private direct messages
That being said, there are two main cases in which private direct messaging is appropriate:
- communications you explicitly want to keep private (e.g. discussing a personal topic with someone)
- extremely irrelevant information that you're sure won't be of interest to anyone: "Hey, can I talk to you in 5 mins?"

These cases (even though rarely) apply also to messaging more than one person: you can create a private conversation with multiple people, if you think it's appropriate (but think twice).

### Private channels
Private channels have a little use and should be generally avoided. They tend to persist once created and it's impossible to convert them to public channels, effectively locking everyone else out for no good reason.
Remember that you can create temporary private conversations with multiple people, without creating a channel.
If a private conversation has a reason to exist and a clear topic, then create a private channel, but again, think twice before doing so.
An example of a valid private conversation could be "person X surprise birthday party": it has a topic, it has a reason to be private and it is limited in time.

## Which channels should I join?

// TODO
