  - general structure. Point to webseed?
    - example directory layout
    - model/components/glue
    - isomorphic?

# General structure

In the following we'll try to sketch out what a typical react app should look like in terms of directory layout.

This is not to be intended as a strict guideline, as different projects could vary slightly and that's OK.

## Source code

All app source code should stay in `<project root>/src`:
```
<project root>
|_ package.json
|_ config.json
|_ webpack.config.js
|_ .eslintrc
|  ...
|_ src
   |_ app
   |  |_ routes
   |  |_ components
   |  |_ domain
   |     ...
   |_ client
   |  |_ index.js
   |  |_ [index-B.js]
   |     ...
   |_ [server]
```

`src/app` is where the core app code goes. This should be the majority of source code.

`src/client` contains client-specific bootstrap files, typically 1:1 with a [webpack `entry` config](https://webpack.github.io/docs/configuration.html#entry). We use a folder here since you might have multiple build configurations, to produce different apps sharing source code, or to produce bundles for different targets (e.g. website vs electron).

Some projects might include a ["universal"](https://medium.com/@mjackson/universal-javascript-4761051b7ae9#.yzqdrsdd0) setup. In this case, the `node` entry point and everything that's specific to node / server side pieces of the app should stay inside `src/server`.

Everything else should stay outside `src`: `test`, build tools configurations, app configuration, linter configuration and other helper scripts.

## webseed

As an example, refer to [buildo/webseed](https://github.com/buildo/webseed).

It contains a basic example app integrating many of the standard tools we use across projects.

It should serve as a documented reference of a good way of structuring apps, or even as a copy-and-paste seed to easily start up a new project. We'll do our best to keep it up to date.

## Domain/Components/glue

At the very minimum, a typical buildo react app is made up of a few pieces: the "domain", the components, and everything else that's needed to glue things together.

#### Domain(s)

As you might have guessed, we use `tcomb` as the primary tool to define our domain models.

An app may comprise multiple domains, e.g. one internal and one describing the APIs.

In some of our projects, the api domain model and/or part of the app domain model is generated by syncing directly with the backend/api domain model.

Domain should also provide the (minimal) client own business logic. We strive to keep it close to zero though, and delegate *everything* to the APIs.

#### Components

TODO: majority of the code, but we tendo to
- components should be UI only (as much as possible)
- keep behavior out (as much as possible)

Look [here](./2.components.md) for a more in-depth guideline about components.